Updated the waspc/README.md and run script. (#2587)
wasp-lang/wasp: waspc/README.md

Author: For reviewing this file, I would also advise checking it out directly so that you get proper markdown rendered/preview and can read it in one piece nicely.

# Waspc

This directory contains source code of the `wasp` CLI/compiler (aka `waspc`), and this README is aimed at the contributors to the project.

> If you are a Wasp user and not a contributor (yet :)), you might want to look into the following resources instead ([**Project page**](https://wasp.sh), [**Docs**](https://wasp.sh/docs)).

Author: I did it, we will see what will the emoji police say.

## Quick overview

Wasp compiler is implemented in Haskell, but you will also see a lot of Javascript and other web technologies because Wasp compiles it's own code into them.
The core of `waspc` is implemented in Haskell, but you will also see a lot of Javascript/TypeScript and other web technologies since Wasp generates web apps in those.

> You don't have to be expert in Haskell to contribute or understand the code, since we don't use complicated Haskell features much -> most of the code is relatively simple and straight-forward, and we are happy to help with the part that is not.

Author: Thanks! I am often guilty of using these `->`.

> You don't have to be expert in Haskell to contribute or understand the code, since we don't use complicated Haskell features much -> most of the code is relatively simple and straight-forward, and we are happy to help with the part that is not.

Reviewer: I abuse them too in my notes.

You don't have to be expert in Haskell to contribute or understand the code, since we don't use complicated Haskell features much -> most of the code is relatively simple and straight-forward, and we are happy to help with any parts that are not.

Main result of building the project is `wasp` executable (also referred to as CLI), which is both Wasp compiler, CLI and Wasp project runner in one - one tool for everything Wasp-related.
Main result of building the project is `wasp` executable (also referred to as CLI), which is both Wasp compiler, CLI and Wasp project runner in one - one main tool for everything Wasp-related.

`wasp` executable takes `.wasp` files and `ext/` dir as input and generates a web app from them.

![Wasp compilation](images/wasp-diagram.png)

> It can then also run that web app for you, deploy it (not yet but that is coming), and manage it in other ways.

Author: I removed this because this section is now about what Wasp itself does, but about what technical details of how `waspc` is implemented.
There is actually another section more below that again repeats this information, so one more reason to remove it.

Position yourself in this directory (`waspc/`) and make sure that you are on the `main` branch.

> ### `run` script

Author: No we introduce `run` script much earlier, at the very start. Which makes sense, since the rest of this file will be mentioning it a lot.

[./run](run) script captures the most common commands / workflows for developoment of `waspc` (similar to the role that `scripts` in `package.json` play in `npm` projects), e.g. `./run build`, `./run test`, ... .

> It serves both as a convenient way to easily run common development tasks and also as a sort of a documentation on how we develop `waspc`. You will see us mentioning it often in the rest of this README.

Reviewer: Forgot about that feature, will start using it.

Running `./run` without any arguments will print help/usage, which is a good way to discover the typical `waspc` development workflows.

> > [!TIP]

Author: We were using just "NOTE" and "TIP", I switched that to these Github specific callouts that look nice.

> To make it easy to run the `./run` script from any place in your waspc codebase, you can create a bash alias that points to it, e.g.:
> ```sh
> alias wrun="/home/martin/git/wasp-lang/wasp/waspc/run"
> ```

> ### Setup

Author: I split the setup into 1. setting up Haskell stuff and 2. setting up npm stuff. I also simplified it a bit. I think this makes it very easy to understand and do now.

#### Haskell toolchain

The best way to install Haskell toolchain is via [ghcup](https://www.haskell.org/ghcup/).

> Once you have `ghcup` installed, run `ghcup tui` command to install and select correct versions of `cabal` (package manager), `hls` (language server) and `ghc` (compiler).

Author: Damn oxford :D. And yes articles are a bit of my bane.

To find out what the correct versions of these tools are for the `waspc`:
 - Run `./run ghcup-set` to check which exact versions of `ghc` and `hls` you should use.

>  - As for `cabal`, just go with the latest one.

Author: This is new thing I added, how to figure out versions, since I figured out I actually don't know how to figure them out hah.

> [!NOTE]
> On Mac, we recommend using the official [ghcup](https://www.haskell.org/ghcup/) installer over Homebrew, as it works out of the box.

#### Javascript / TypeScript toolchain

You need to have the correct version of `node` (and `npm`) installed and set.

Check [.nvmrc](.nvmrc) file to learn which version of `node` that should be.

### Build

```sh

> ./run build:all

Author: Now we tell them here to run this new command. So they don't have to know too much -> it just means they are building the whole project.

```

to build the whole `waspc` project.

This might take a while (e.g. 10 mins) if you are doing it for the very first time, due to having to download all the dependencies (which will later be cached).

> If that is the case, relax and feel free to get yourself a cup of coffee! When somebody asks what you are doing, you can finally rightfully say "compiling!" :D.

Author: Although I am not enumerating stuff here, it is a composite sentence instead, so oxford comma would not be a good fit? This is actually a real "and". Or am I wrong here? Obviously I am not an oxford comma expert or I wouldn't get so many of them wrong.
GPT agrees that it is not neccessary here and is a stylistic choice, but I might have biased it.

> If that is the case, relax and feel free to get yourself a cup of coffee! When somebody asks what you are doing, you can finally rightfully say "compiling!" :D.

Reviewer: That is true that it is unnecessary, I've still pointed it out because our style guide recommends oxford comma. You can resolve it however you want to.

> [!NOTE]
> If you are on Mac and get "Couldn't figure out LLVM version!" error message while building, make sure you have LLVM installed and that it is correctly exposed via env vars (PATH, LDFLAGS, CPPFLAGS).
> The easiest way to do it is by just running `brew install llvm@13`, this should install LLVM and also set up env vars.
>

> > If the LLVM error persists even after its installation, you may need to manually add it your PATH. To do this, you should add the following to end of your shell rc file (e.g. _~/.bashrc_ or _~/.zshrc_): `export PATH="/opt/homebrew/Cellar/llvm@13/13.0.1_2/bin/:$PATH"`.

Author: Let's do it if you think it isuseful! I don't have a mac so I can't really.
But keep in mind we will also move to newer Haskell toolchain soon, so this will probably become obsolete and removed anyway. So mabye not needed.

> > If the LLVM error persists even after its installation, you may need to manually add it your PATH. To do this, you should add the following to end of your shell rc file (e.g. _~/.bashrc_ or _~/.zshrc_): `export PATH="/opt/homebrew/Cellar/llvm@13/13.0.1_2/bin/:$PATH"`.

Reviewer: Checked my config and its:
```bash
export PATH="/opt/homebrew/opt/llvm@13/bin:$PATH"
```
Both file paths exist so I researched:
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35337601/why-is-there-a-usr-local-opt-directory-created-by-homebrew-and-should-i-use-it

I think the brew's post installation path recommendation is more correct here, as it's a stable, version-agnostic path.

Redoing this part after we update the toolchain also sounds good. 👍

> > If the LLVM error persists even after its installation, you may need to manually add it your PATH. To do this, you should add the following to end of your shell rc file (e.g. _~/.bashrc_ or _~/.zshrc_): `export PATH="/opt/homebrew/Cellar/llvm@13/13.0.1_2/bin/:$PATH"`.

Author: Got it! I rewrote it now to use the PATH you suggested then.

### Test

```
./run test
```

to ensure all the tests (unit, e2e, ...) are passing.

### Executable

```
./run wasp-cli [wasp-cli-args]
```

to run the `wasp-cli` executable (that you previously built with `./run build:all`)!

Run `./run wasp-cli` to print the help/usage.

Note that the executable during development is named `wasp-cli`, unlike `wasp` which is how it is named when you install a public release of Wasp via official installation method.
This is to make it easier to differentiate between the development version of wasp CLI and the released version.

### Running the example app

Position yourself in [waspc/examples/todoApp/](examples/todoApp/) and run

```
./run wasp-cli db migrate-dev
```

to update the database schema. Then,

```
./run wasp-cli start
```

to run the example app in the development mode.

> 

Author: I tihkn you are right! I haven't changed this part os it must be old ommision, probably from the time when todoApp was using sqlite.

But now that we talk about it -> how are they going to supply all the env vars? Uff. Yeah, they won't be able to run it anyway. But probably isn't a single example app they will be able to run hm. Maybe we should have such an app. I created a separate issue for this: https://github.com/wasp-lang/wasp/issues/2648 .

> 

Reviewer: Sounds great, we will resolve this further in that issue.

If you are doing this for the very first time, it might take a minute or so to download and install npm dependencies (later they will be cached).

When done, new tab in your browser should open and you will see a Todo App!

## Typical development workflow

1. Create a new feature branch from `main`.
2. If you don't have a good/reliable working HLS (Haskell Language Server) connected to your IDE (which we strongly recommend), you will want to instead run `./run ghcid` from the root of the `waspc` project: this will run a process that watches the Haskell project and reports any Haskell compiler errors. Leave it running. NOTE: You will need to install `ghcid` globally first. You can do it with `cabal install ghcid`.
3. Do a change in the codebase (most often in `src/` or `cli/src/` or `data/`) (also update tests if that makes sense: see "Tests").
   Fix any errors shown by HLS/`ghcid`.
   Rinse and repeat.

> 4. Use `./run build` to build the Haskell/cabal project, and `./run wasp-cli` to run it. If you changed code in `packages/`, you will also need to run `./run build:packages` (check [TypeScript Packages section](#typescript-packages) for more details). Alternatively, you can also run slower `./run build:all` to at the same time build Haskell, TS packages and any other piece of the project in one command.

Reviewer: Oxford comma - TS packages, and any other

## Quick overview

> The core of `waspc` is implemented in Haskell, but you will also see a lot of Javascript/TypeScript and other web technologies since Wasp generates web apps in those.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The core of `waspc` is implemented in Haskell, but you will also see a lot of Javascript/TypeScript and other web technologies which apps generated with Wasp use.
```

_in those_ sounds off to me, so I wanted to adjust it a bit

> You don't have to be an expert in Haskell to contribute or understand the code since we don't use complicated Haskell features much. Most of the code is relatively simple and straight-forward, and we are happy to help with any parts that are not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You don't have to be an expert in Haskell to contribute or understand the code since we don't use complicated Haskell features much. Most of the code is relatively simple and straight-forward, and we are happy to help with anything you get stuck with.
```

Sounds more natural to me

### `run` script

[`./run`](run) script captures the most common commands/workflows for the development of `waspc` (similar to the role that `scripts` in `package.json` play in `npm` projects), e.g. `./run build`, `./run test`, ... .

It serves both as a convenient way to easily run common development tasks and also as a sort of documentation on how we develop `waspc`. You will see us mentioning it often in the rest of this README.

Running `./run` without any arguments will print help/usage, which is a good way to discover the typical `waspc` development workflows.

> [!TIP]
> To make it easy to run the `./run` script from any place in your waspc codebase, you can create a bash alias that points to it, e.g.:
> ```sh
> alias wrun="/home/martin/git/wasp-lang/wasp/waspc/run"
> ```

### Setup

#### Haskell toolchain

The best way to install the Haskell toolchain is via [ghcup](https://www.haskell.org/ghcup/).

Once you have `ghcup` installed, run the `ghcup tui` command to install and select the correct versions of `cabal` (package manager), `hls` (language server), and `ghc` (compiler).

To find out what the correct versions of these tools are for the `waspc`:

>  - Run `./run ghcup-set` to check which exact versions of `ghc` and `hls` you should use.

Reviewer 2: Running `wrun ghcup-set` sets the versions (it has a side effect), maybe mention that.

I also get a warning from running it:
```
[ Warn  ] Assuming you meant version 2.2.0.0
```
because we didn't run with the fourth number in the version `ghcup set hls 2.2.0`

 - As for `cabal`, just go with the latest one.

> [!NOTE]
> On Mac, we recommend using the official [ghcup](https://www.haskell.org/ghcup/) installer over Homebrew, as it works out of the box.

#### Javascript / TypeScript toolchain

You need to have the correct version of `node` (and `npm`) installed and set.

Check [.nvmrc](.nvmrc) file to learn which version of `node` that should be.

### Build

```sh
./run build:all
```

to build the whole `waspc` project.

This might take a while (e.g. 10 mins) if you are doing it for the very first time, due to having to download all the dependencies (which will later be cached).

> If that is the case, relax and feel free to get yourself a cup of coffee! When somebody asks what you are doing, you can finally rightfully say "compiling!" :D.

Reviewer 2: Great joke 👍 

Nitpick: you went with :D style emoji while on the top you went with unicode style emoji https://github.com/wasp-lang/wasp/pull/2587/files#diff-183fe8b2a792696cf21d0355dd5dd579e8c7947699567cf920272d70989ebb71R5

> [!NOTE]
> If you are on Mac and get "Couldn't figure out LLVM version!" error message while building, make sure you have LLVM installed and that it is correctly exposed via env vars (PATH, LDFLAGS, CPPFLAGS).
> The easiest way to do it is by just running `brew install llvm@13`, this should install LLVM and also set up env vars.
>
> If the LLVM error persists even after its installation, you may need to manually add it your PATH. To do this, you should add the following to end of your shell rc file (e.g. _~/.bashrc_ or _~/.zshrc_): `export PATH="/opt/homebrew/opt/llvm@13/bin:$PATH"`.

### Test

```
./run test
```

to ensure all the tests (unit, e2e, ...) are passing.

### Executable

```
./run wasp-cli [wasp-cli-args]
```

> to run the `wasp-cli` executable (that you previously built with `./run build:all`)!

Reviewer 2: >  (that you previously built with `./run build:all`)!

The command will build the `wasp-cli` if not built, let's maybe drop this bit not to confuse people that they might need to run `build:all` every time.

Author: The difference between build:all and other builds is explained just below in "typical development workflow" so I think there is no danger of them using it wrong, and on the  other hand I think it is avluable here as it establishes connection between this executable and the build above, so I tihnk it is useful to leave this!

It will build wasp-cli if not built, but it won't build the ts-packages. If they indeed don't get to understanding the differene between different build coomands, I would rather have them use build:all each time than not being able to get stuff working because they are not building ts packages.

Reviewer: This might lead people into believing build:all is required every time. I would like to avoid that. So I agree with @infomiho here. Is explicit connection to `./run build:all` needed here since we can assume the contributors know what "build" and "run" are?

Author: @FranjoMindek I think I explained this above in the message: Why I don't think this is an issue + why I do think it is needed. Is there something there you don't agree with?

Reviewer: I just think that we don't need to establish the connection between build and executable. That was my intention. But the more I think about it maybe for the first encounter it's good that it's there.

Author: > I just think that we don't need to establish the connection between build and executable. That was my intention. But the more I think about it maybe for the first encounter it's good that it's there.

If I am the only one thinking it is useful I will remove it, might be I am in my bubble here hah, but I thought it helps to establish the connect as we never say what is being built in the step above, and I don't want to list all that is being built there beacuse then we needt o mainta that list, so I thought this is a happy mid solution.
And later there are details on what typical dev process looks like.

I won't push it further though, I said all I had -> if you two would still rather I just remove that part about `build:all`, I will.

Run `./run wasp-cli` to print the help/usage.

Note that the executable during development is named `wasp-cli`, unlike `wasp` which is how it is named when you install a public release of Wasp via official installation method.
This is to make it easier to differentiate between the development version of wasp CLI and the released version.

### Running the example app

First, position yourself in the [waspc/examples/todoApp/](examples/todoApp/) dir.

Then, run the dev database:

```sh
./run wasp-cli db start
```

Leave it running, open a new terminal (tab), and run

```sh

> ./run wasp-cli db migrate-dev

Reviewer 2: I'd add `cp .env.server.example .env.server` because the server will fail without the env vars.

```

to update the database schema.

Finally, run

```sh
./run wasp-cli start
```

to run the example app in the development mode.

> If you are doing this for the very first time, it might take a minute or so to download and install npm dependencies (later they will be cached).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are doing this for the very first time, it might take a minute or so to download and install npm dependencies.
```

Nitpick: It's kinda implied with the intro sentence, I'd drop this to keep it cleaner.

When done, new tab in your browser should open and you will see a Todo App!

## Typical development workflow

1. Create a new feature branch from `main`.

> 2. If you don't have a good/reliable working HLS (Haskell Language Server) connected to your IDE (which we strongly recommend), you will want to instead run `./run ghcid` from the root of the `waspc` project: this will run a process that watches the Haskell project and reports any Haskell compiler errors. Leave it running. NOTE: You will need to install `ghcid` globally first. You can do it with `cabal install ghcid`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. If you don't have a good/reliable working HLS (Haskell Language Server) connected to your IDE (which we strongly recommend), you will want to instead run `./run ghcid` from the root of the `waspc` project: this will run a process that watches the Haskell project and reports any Haskell compiler errors. Leave it running.
    -  NOTE: You will need to install `ghcid` globally first. You can do it with `cabal install ghcid`.
```

Nitpick: I like to move "extra details" from being inline to a sub-level in the bullets. I think it makes things a bit more readable.

Author: Nice, I like that!

3. Do a change in the codebase (most often in `src/` or `cli/src/` or `data/`) (also update tests if that makes sense: see "Tests").
   Fix any errors shown by HLS/`ghcid`.
   Rinse and repeat.

> 4. Use `./run build` to build the Haskell/cabal project, and `./run wasp-cli` to run it. If you changed code in `packages/`, you will also need to run `./run build:packages` (check [TypeScript Packages section](#typescript-packages) for more details). Alternatively, you can also run slower `./run build:all` to at the same time build Haskell, TS packages, and any other piece of the project in one command.

Reviewer 2: They don't need to run `build` first. The `./run wasp-cli` will run it if needed.

Author: I know, I didn't say they need to run build first -> I just wanted to make it clera what are common commands they might want to be running. I often do `./run build` jsut to see if wohle project is compiling as it should, without running it.
But it might sound like they do have to run `build` first. I made modification:

> and `./run wasp-cli` to both build and run it.

> 5. For easily manually testing the changes you did on a Wasp app, you have `examples/todoApp`, which we always keep updated. Also, if you added a new feature, add it to this app (+ tests) if needed. Check its README for more details (including how to run it).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. For easier manual testing of the changes you did on a Wasp app, you have the `examples/todoApp` app, which we always keep updated. Also, if you added a new feature, add it to this app (+ tests) if needed. Check its README for more details (including how to run it).
```

## Typical development workflow

1. Create a new feature branch from `main`.
2. If you don't have a good/reliable working HLS (Haskell Language Server) connected to your IDE (which we strongly recommend), you will want to instead run `./run ghcid` from the root of the `waspc` project: this will run a process that watches the Haskell project and reports any Haskell compiler errors. Leave it running.
    -  NOTE: You will need to install `ghcid` globally first. You can do it with `cabal install ghcid`.
3. Do a change in the codebase (most often in `src/` or `cli/src/` or `data/`) (also update tests if that makes sense: see "Tests").
   Fix any errors shown by HLS/`ghcid`.
   Rinse and repeat.
4. Use `./run build` to build the Haskell/cabal project, and `./run wasp-cli` to both build and run it. If you changed code in `packages/`, you will also need to run `./run build:packages` (check [TypeScript Packages section](#typescript-packages) for more details). Alternatively, you can also run slower `./run build:all` to at the same time build Haskell, TS packages, and any other piece of the project in one command.

> 5. For easier manual of testing the changes you did on a Wasp app, you have the `examples/todoApp` app, which we always keep updated. Also, if you added a new feature, add it to this app (+ tests) if needed. Check its README for more details (including how to run it).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. For easier manual testing of the changes you did on a Wasp app, you have the `examples/todoApp` app, which we always keep updated. Also, if you added a new feature, add it to this app (+ tests) if needed. Check its README for more details (including how to run it).
```

6. Run `./run test` to confirm that all the tests (unit + integration + e2e) are passing. If needed, accept changes in the e2e golden/snapshot tests with `./run test:e2e:accept-all`. Check "Tests" for more info.

> 7. If you did a bug fix, added new feature or did a breaking change, add short info about it to `Changelog.md`. Also, bump version in `waspc.cabal` and `ChangeLog.md` if needed. If you are not sure how to decide which version to go with, check out [how we determine the next version](####determining-next-version).

Reviewer: In previous suggestion I've mentioned I'm not sure if the link is okay. Now I actually tested it, turns out only 1 "#" is always used when linking titles.

```suggestion
7. If you did a bug fix, added new feature or did a breaking change, add short info about it to `Changelog.md`. Also, bump version in `waspc.cabal` and `ChangeLog.md` if needed. If you are not sure how to decide which version to go with, check out [how we determine the next version](#determining-next-version).
```

> 7. If you did a bug fix, added new feature or did a breaking change, add short info about it to `Changelog.md`. Also, bump version in `waspc.cabal` and `ChangeLog.md` if needed -> check the version of latest release when doing it. If you are not sure how to decide which version to go with, check instructions on it later in this file.

Reviewer: I think a bit shorter is fine. Also link the title we talk about. I didn't check if the link is correct so be careful.

```suggestion
7. If you did a bug fix, added new feature or did a breaking change, add short info about it to `Changelog.md`. Also, bump version in `waspc.cabal` and `ChangeLog.md` if needed. If you are not sure how to decide which version to go with, check out [how we determine the next version](####determining-next-version).
```

### `run` script

> [./run](run) script captures the most common commands/workflows for the development of `waspc` (similar to the role that `scripts` in `package.json` play in `npm` projects), e.g. `./run build`, `./run test`, ... .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`./run`](run) script captures the most common commands/workflows for the development of `waspc` (similar to the role that `scripts` in `package.json` play in `npm` projects), e.g. `./run build`, `./run test`, ...
```

Reviewer: I think you missed this because I failed to use suggested changes, really hard to read the changes otherwise. Sorry about that.

We can use inline code inside of a link.
Ellipsis can be used as an sentence end, no need for a dot.

Author: I did the inline code thing!

Ellipsis -> I on purpose add a period. I still think it serves the purpose of making it clear the sentence ends here. `...` is there for ommision, and it can be in the middle of the sentence, in that case of course no period, but if it is a the end, I put period. I know grammarly likes to complain about it but I don't agree with it hah :D. Btw here are some online discussions: https://www.reddit.com/r/writing/comments/z744l7/do_you_use_a_period_after_ellipsis/ .
To me ending wihtout period is just too weird, especially if there is next sentence after it with a big capital letter (not in this case though).

Reviewer: 😢  but ok

Codebase is split into library (`src/`) and CLI (which itself has a library `cli/src/` and thin executable wrapper `cli/exe/`).
CLI is actually `wasp` executable, and it uses the library, where most of the logic is.

> Wasp compiler takes .wasp files + everything in the `ext/` dir (JS, HTML, ...) and generates a web app that consists of client, server and database.

Author: Outdated, I updated it.

> Wasp compiler takes .wasp files + everything in the `src/` dir (JS, HTML, ...) and generates a web app that consists of client, server and database.

Reviewer: oxford comma, and i think the is also added here - of the client, server, and database.

Codebase is split into library (`src/`) and CLI (which itself has a library `cli/src/` and thin executable wrapper `cli/exe/`).
CLI is actually `wasp` executable, and it uses the library, where most of the logic is.

> Wasp compiler takes .wasp files + everything in the `src/` dir (JS, HTML, ...) and generates a web app that consists of client, server, and the database.

Reviewer: I still felt weird about it here so I put it through grammarly, it suggested this instead:
```suggestion
Wasp compiler takes .wasp files + everything in the `src/` dir (JS, HTML, ...) and generates a web app that consists of a client, server, and database.
```
I think it fits since it can be "any" client, server or database.

- data/Generator/templates/ -> mustache templates for the generated client/server.
- examples/ -> example apps

## Building / development (detailed)

> Some useful cabal commands:

Author: I don't explain cabal anymore in this README. If they want to learn cabal, they can read cabal docs, and if they want to know how to run the proejct, there is `run` script. No need to repeat oureslves or repeat docs that are not ours.

Reviewer: The less they have to learn to start working the better, I like it

- `cabal update` to update your package information.
- `cabal build` to build the project, including `wasp` binary which is both CLI and compiler in one.
- `cabal run wasp-cli <arguments>` to run the `wasp` binary that was previously built.
- `cabal test` to build the whole project + tests and then also run tests.
- `cabal install` -> builds the project and places the binary so it is in PATH (so you can call it directly, from anywhere, with just `wasp`).

For live compilation and error checking of your code we recommend using Haskell Language Server (hls) via your IDE, but if that is not working as it should, then safe fallback is always `ghcid`. You can install `ghcid` globally with `cabal install ghcid` and then just type `ghcid` when in the project -> it will watch for any file changes and report errors.

> ### Run script

Author: This information still exists, but it got moved much sooner in this doc, in "Basics" where we introduce `run` script. I also shortened it a bit, without loosing anything I believe.

> `waspc`, while implemented in Haskell, relies for some of its functionality on TypeScript code (e.g. for parsing TS code, or for deployment scripts). In these cases, the Haskell code runs these TS packages as separate processes and communicates through input/output streams. These packages are located in `packages/` and are normal npm projects. See `packages/README.md` for how the projects are expected to be set up.

Reviewer: maybe - `waspc`, while implemented in Haskell, relies on TypeScript for some of its functionality ...

Author: Done, it sounds more natural indeed.

> For tests in Haskell we are using [**Tasty**](https://github.com/UnkindPartition/tasty) testing framework. Tasty let's us combine different types of tests into a single test suite.

Reviewer: let's -> lets

This is convention for Haskell, opposite to mixing them with source code as in Javascript for example.
Not only that, but Haskell build tools don't have a good support for mixing them with source files, so even if we wanted to do that it is just not worth the hassle.

> Tests are run with `./run test`. They include both unit tests, and end-to-end tests of basic CLI commands.

Reviewer 2: We list a different list of type of tests than on this line: https://github.com/wasp-lang/wasp/pull/2587/files#diff-183fe8b2a792696cf21d0355dd5dd579e8c7947699567cf920272d70989ebb71R150

Author: Yup that part of sentence is a bit older and I didn't update it, I updated it now.

To run unit tests only, you can do `./run test:unit`.
To run individual unit test, you can do `./run test:unit "Some test description to match"`.

To run cli tests only, you can do `./run test:cli`.

> To run end-to-end tests only, you can do `/run test:e2e`.

Reviewer 2: `test:headless` are not mentioned in this list

Author: Also old text, I didn't review it all, merely updated the commands. I added it now.

NOTE: When you run it for the first time it might take a while (~10 minutes) for all the dependencies to get installed.
The subsequent runs will be much faster.

> ## Commit message conventions

Author: We are not really doing this so I removed it.

External documentation, for users of Wasp, is hosted at https://wasp.sh/docs, and its source is available at [web/docs](/web/docs), next to the website and blog.

## Mage

Wasp's magic GPT web app generator aka Wasp AI aka Mage is hosted at https://usemage.ai and its source is available at [mage](/mage).

Make sure to update it when changes modify how Wasp works.

## Haskell

We are documenting best practices related to Haskell in our [Haskell Handbook](https://github.com/wasp-lang/haskell-handbook).

> ### Cabal dep freezing

Author: This I just moved from up there in the doc to here, I didn't change it.
